---
title: 133. Clone Graph
level: medium
categories:
- DFS
- BFS
- Graph
- Hash Table
- Review
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 133. Clone Graph 
  Post by ailswan Oct.01, 2023
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
status: ★
python_code: >
  class Solution:
    def __init__(self):
        self.visit = {}
        
    def cloneGraph(self, node: Optional['Node']) -> Optional['Node']:
        if not node:
            return node
        if node in self.visit:
            return self.visit[node]
        res = Node(node.val, [])
        self.visit[node] = res
        if node.neighbors:
            res.neighbors = [self.cloneGraph(n) for n in node.neighbors]
        return res
        
   
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
https://leetcode.com/problems/clone-graph/submissions/
https://leetcode.cn/problems/clone-graph/submissions/

Given a reference of a node in a connected undirected graph.

Return a deep copy (clone) of the graph.

Each node in the graph contains a value (int) and a list (List[Node]) of its neighbors.

class Node {
    public int val;
    public List<Node> neighbors;
}
 

Test case format:

For simplicity, each node's value is the same as the node's index (1-indexed). For example, the first node with val == 1, the second node with val == 2, and so on. The graph is represented in the test case using an adjacency list.

An adjacency list is a collection of unordered lists used to represent a finite graph. Each list describes the set of neighbors of a node in the graph.

The given node will always be the first node with val = 1. You must return the copy of the given node as a reference to the cloned graph.



**Example:**

**Input:** `adjList = [[2,4],[1,3],[2,4],[1,3]]`
**Output:** `[[2,4],[1,3],[2,4],[1,3]]`
 
**Input:** `adjList = [[]]`
**Output:** `[[]]`

**Input:** `adjList = []`
**Output:** `[[]]`
 

### Solution Approach
The solution is based on depth-first traversal where each node's clone is created recursively ensuring no duplicate clones.

#### Algorithm
1. Initialize a dictionary to store visited nodes to avoid cyclic cloning and store clones associated with the original node.
2. Start the depth-first traversal from the given node. If the node is already visited, return the cloned node from the visited dictionary.
3. If not visited, create a new clone of the current node, add it to the visited dictionary, and recursively clone all its neighbors. Finally, return the cloned node.