---
title: 147. Insertion Sort List
level: medium
categories:
- Linked List
- Sorting
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 147. Insertion Sort List
  Post by ailswan Oct.16, 2023
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
python_code: >
  class Solution:
      def insertionSortList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> Optional[ListNode]:
          pre = dummy = ListNode()
          node = head
          while node:
              cur = node
              node = node.next
              if cur.val < pre.val:
                  pre = dummy
              while pre.next and cur.val > pre.next.val:
                  pre = pre.next
              cur.next = pre.next
              pre.next = cur
          return dummy.next
   
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
https://leetcode.com/problems/insertion-sort-list/
https://leetcode.cn/problems/insertion-sort-list/
 
Given the head of a singly linked list, sort the list using insertion sort, and return the sorted list's head.

The steps of the insertion sort algorithm:

Insertion sort iterates, consuming one input element each repetition and growing a sorted output list.
At each iteration, insertion sort removes one element from the input data, finds the location it belongs within the sorted list and inserts it there.
It repeats until no input elements remain.
The following is a graphical example of the insertion sort algorithm. The partially sorted list (black) initially contains only the first element in the list. One element (red) is removed from the input data and inserted in-place into the sorted list with each iteration.


**Example:**

**Input:** `head = [4,2,1,3]`
**Output:** `[1,2,3,4]`
 
**Input:** `head = [-1,5,3,4,0]`
**Output:** `[-1,0,3,4,5]`
 

### Solution Approach
The solution uses the classic insertion sort technique, but applies it on a singly linked list, where elements are moved by changing the pointers instead of swapping.

#### Algorithm
1. Create a new dummy node to act as the starting point of the sorted list.
2. Traverse the original list, for each node, find its position in the sorted list and insert it there by adjusting the pointers.
3. Repeat the process until the original list is exhausted and return the next pointer of the dummy node, which will be the head of the sorted list.