---
title: LeetCode 337. House Robber III
level: easy
categories:
- Tree
- Depth-First Search
- DP
- Binary Tree
- Review
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 337. House Robber III
  Post by ailswan Dec. 13, 2023
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
python_code: >
  # class TreeNode:
  #     def __init__(self, val=0, left=None, right=None):
  #         self.val = val
  #         self.left = left
  #         self.right = right
  class Solution:
      def rob(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> int:
          def traversal(node):
              if not node:
                  return (0, 0)
              l = traversal(node.left)
              r = traversal(node.right)
              rob = node.val + l[1] + r[1]
              no_rob = max(l[1],l[0]) + max(r[1], r[0])
              return (rob, no_rob)
            
          return max(traversal(root))
               
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
[LeetCode.cn](https://leetcode.cn/problems/house-robber-iii/)
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber-iii/)

The thief has found himself a new place for his thievery again. There is only one entrance to this area, called root.

Besides the root, each house has one and only one parent house. After a tour, the smart thief realized that all houses in this place form a binary tree. It will automatically contact the police if two directly-linked houses were broken into on the same night.

Given the root of the binary tree, return the maximum amount of money the thief can rob without alerting the police.
 
**Example:**

**Input:** `root = [3,2,3,null,3,null,1]`
**Output:** `7`
 
**Input:** `root = [3,4,5,1,3,null,1]`
**Output:** `9`

### Solution Approach
The solution employs a depth-first search (DFS) approach to traverse the binary tree and compute the maximum amount of money the thief can rob without alerting the police. At each node, two values are returned representing the maximum amount of money that can be robbed if the node is robbed (rob) and if the node is not robbed (no_rob). The final result is the maximum of these two values computed from the root node.

#### Algorithm
1. DFS Traversal: Utilizes depth-first search to traverse the binary tree.

2. Rob or Not Rob Decision: At each node, determines whether to rob the current house or not by computing rob and no_rob values.

3. Maximum Value Selection: Returns the maximum value obtained from the root node, indicating the maximum amount the thief can rob without alerting the police.