---
title: 394. Decode String
level: medium
categories:
- Stack
- Recursion
- String
- Review
- AMateList
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 394. Decode String
  Post by ailswan Feb. 28, 2024
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
status: ★
session: 2
python_code: >
  class Solution:
    def decodeString(self, s: str) -> str:
      stack = []
      cur_digit = cur = ""
      for c in s:
        if c.isdigit():
          cur_digit = int(cur_digit) * 10 + int(c) if cur_digit != "" else int(c)
        elif c == "[":
          stack.append(cur)
          stack.append(str(cur_digit))
          cur = cur_digit = ""
        elif c == "]":
          cur = cur * int(stack.pop())
          cur = stack.pop() + cur
        else:
          cur += c
      return cur

---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
[LeetCode.cn](https://leetcode.cn/problems/decode-string/)
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/decode-string/)

Given an encoded string, return its decoded string.

The encoding rule is: k[encoded_string], where the encoded_string inside the square brackets is being repeated exactly k times. Note that k is guaranteed to be a positive integer.

You may assume that the input string is always valid; there are no extra white spaces, square brackets are well-formed, etc. Furthermore, you may assume that the original data does not contain any digits and that digits are only for those repeat numbers, k. For example, there will not be input like 3a or 2[4].

The test cases are generated so that the length of the output will never exceed 105.

 
**Example:**

**Input:** `s = "3[a]2[bc]"`
**Output:** `"aaabcbc"`
 
**Input:** `s = "3[a2[c]]"`
**Output:** `"accaccacc"`

**Input:** `s = "2[abc]3[cd]ef"`
**Output:** `"abcabccdcdcdef"`

### Solution Approach
The solution utilizes a stack to decode the given string iteratively by keeping track of digits and substrings within square brackets, appending and processing them accordingly.

#### Algorithm
1. Initialize an empty stack and variables to track current digits and substring.
2. Iterate through each character in the string:
If the character is a digit, update the current digit accordingly.
If the character is '[', push the current substring and digit onto the stack, reset current digit and substring.
If the character is ']', pop the stack to retrieve the previous substring and digit, multiply the current substring by the digit, append it to the substring popped from the stack, and set the result as the current substring.
Otherwise, append the character to the current substring.
3. Return the final decoded string stored in the current substring.