---
title: 124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum
level: hard
categories:
- Tree
- DFS
- DP
- Binary Tree
- Review
- AMateList
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum
  Post by ailswan Oct.10, 2023
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
python_code: >
  class Solution:
    def maxPathSum(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> int:
        def traversal(root):
            if not root:
                return 0
            left = max(0, traversal(root.left))
            right = max(0, traversal(root.right))
            self.res = max(self.res, left + right + root.val)
            return max(left, right, 0) + root.val

        self.res = float('-inf')
        traversal(root)

   
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum/
https://leetcode.cn/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum/

A path in a binary tree is a sequence of nodes where each pair of adjacent nodes in the sequence has an edge connecting them. A node can only appear in the sequence at most once. Note that the path does not need to pass through the root.

The path sum of a path is the sum of the node's values in the path.

Given the root of a binary tree, return the maximum path sum of any non-empty path.


**Example:**

**Input:** `root = [1,2,3]`
**Output:** `6`
 
**Input:** `root = [-10,9,20,null,null,15,7]`
**Output:** `42`
 

### Solution Approach
The solution leverages a depth-first search (DFS) to traverse the binary tree while keeping track of the maximum path sum at each node.
 
#### Algorithm
1. Initialization: Start with a global maximum (self.res) initialized to negative infinity.
2. DFS Traversal: For each node, recursively calculate the maximum path sum for its left and right child, ensuring that negative sums are not considered (replaced with 0).
3. Path Sum Calculation: For the current node, calculate the maximum path sum that can be obtained including its value. This is the sum of its value, the maximum path from the left child, and the maximum path from the right child. Update the global maximum with this value if it's greater.
4. Return Value: The function returns the maximum path sum for the current node which is either from the left child or right child plus the node's value. This ensures the path remains continuous for the parent nodes.