---
title: 310. Minimum Height Trees
level: Medium
categories:
- DFS
- BFS
- Graph
- Topological Sort
- Review
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 310. Minimum Height Trees
  Post by ailswan Dec. 26, 2023
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
python_code: >
  class Solution:
      def findMinHeightTrees(self, n: int, edges: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
        bound = [set() for _ in range(n)]
        for u, v in edges:
            bound[u].add(v)
            bound[v].add(u)
        q = [x for x in range(n) if len(bound[x]) < 2]
        tmp = []
        while True:
            for node in q:
                for n in bound[node]:
                    bound[n].remove(node)
                    if len(bound[n]) == 1:
                        tmp.append(n)
            if not tmp:
                break
            tmp, q = [], tmp
        return q
         
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
[LeetCode.cn](https://leetcode.cn/problems/minimum-height-trees/)
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-height-trees/)

A tree is an undirected graph in which any two vertices are connected by exactly one path. In other words, any connected graph without simple cycles is a tree.

Given a tree of n nodes labelled from 0 to n - 1, and an array of n - 1 edges where edges[i] = [ai, bi] indicates that there is an undirected edge between the two nodes ai and bi in the tree, you can choose any node of the tree as the root. When you select a node x as the root, the result tree has height h. Among all possible rooted trees, those with minimum height (i.e. min(h))  are called minimum height trees (MHTs).

Return a list of all MHTs' root labels. You can return the answer in any order.

The height of a rooted tree is the number of edges on the longest downward path between the root and a leaf.


 
**Example:**

**Input:** `n = 4, edges = [[1,0],[1,2],[1,3]]`
**Output:** `[1]`
 
**Input:** `n = 6, edges = [[3,0],[3,1],[3,2],[3,4],[5,4]]`
**Output:** `[3,4]`

### Solution Approach
 The algorithm uses a bottom-up approach to find the Minimum Height Trees (MHTs). It starts by building a graph representation using the given edges and then iteratively prunes the leaves (nodes with only one neighbor) until only the MHT roots remain.

#### Algorithm
1. Build an adjacency list representation of the tree using the given edges.
2. Initialize a queue (q) with the leaf nodes (nodes with only one neighbor).
3. While the queue is not empty, remove each node from the queue, update its neighbors by removing the current node, and add new leaves to a temporary list (tmp).
4. If tmp is not empty, update q with tmp and clear tmp. Repeat the process until there are no more leaves.
5. The remaining nodes in q are the roots of the Minimum Height Trees. Return the roots as the final result.