---
title: 285. Inorder Successor in BST
level: medium
categories:
- Tree
- DFS
- BFS
- Binary Tree
- AMateList
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 285. Inorder Successor in BST
  Post by ailswan Aug. 12, 2024
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
python_code: >
    # Definition for a binary tree node.
    # class TreeNode:
    #     def __init__(self, x):
    #         self.val = x
    #         self.left = None
    #         self.right = None

    class Solution:
        def inorderSuccessor(self, root: TreeNode, p: TreeNode) -> Optional[TreeNode]:
            self.ans = None
            def dfs(root):
                if not root: return
                dfs(root.left)
                if not self.ans and root.val > p.val: 
                    self.ans = root
                    return
                dfs(root.right)
            dfs(root)
            return self.ans

        def inorderSuccessor(self, root: TreeNode, p: TreeNode) -> Optional[TreeNode]:
            ans = None
            while root:
                if root.val>p.val:
                    ans = root
                    root = root.left 
                else:
                    root = root.right 
            return ans
  
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
[LeetCode.cn](https://leetcode.cn/problems/inorder-successor-in-bst/)
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/inorder-successor-in-bst/)
Given the root of a binary search tree and a node p in it, return the in-order successor of that node in the BST. If the given node has no in-order successor in the tree, return null.

The successor of a node p is the node with the smallest key greater than p.val.

**Example:**

**Input:** `root = [2,1,3], p = 1`
**Output:** `2`
 
**Input:** `root = [5,3,6,2,4,null,null,1], p = 6`
**Output:** `null`

**Constraints:**
The number of nodes in the tree is in the range [1, 104].
-105 <= Node.val <= 105
All Nodes will have unique values.

### Solution Approach
Recursive Method: Perform an in-order traversal, updating the successor when encountering a node with a value greater than the target node, and terminate early once the successor is found.

Iterative Method: Traverse the tree iteratively, updating the successor each time a node with a value greater than the target node is found, and continue until reaching a leaf node or finding the successor.

#### Complexity
Recursive Method
Time Complexity: O(N) in the worst case, where N is the number of nodes in the tree, since the in-order traversal might visit every node.
Space Complexity: O(H) where H is the height of the tree, due to the recursion stack. In the worst case, H could be O(N) for a skewed tree.
Iterative Method
Time Complexity: O(H) where H is the height of the tree, since the algorithm only needs to traverse down the tree from the root to a leaf node.
Space Complexity: O(1) as it uses a constant amount of extra space aside from the input tree itself.

#### Algorithm
##### Recursive Method
In-Order Traversal: Perform an in-order traversal starting from the root, recursively exploring the left subtree, current node, and then the right subtree.

Check and Update Successor: During the traversal, if a node's value is greater than the target node's value and no successor has been found yet, update the successor to the current node and terminate the recursion.

Base Case: If the traversal reaches a null node or the successor is found, return immediately to stop further traversal.

##### Iterative Method
Tree Traversal: Begin at the root and iteratively move through the tree, deciding to traverse left or right based on the current node's value relative to the target node's value.

Update Successor: If the current node's value is greater than the target node's value, update the potential successor to this node and continue searching in the left subtree.

Termination: Continue the traversal until reaching a null node, and return the last updated potential successor, or null if no successor is found.