---
title: 332. Reconstruct Itinerary
level: hard
categories:
- Depth-First Search
- Graph
- Eulerian Circuit
- Review
- AMateList
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 332. Reconstruct Itinerary
  Post by ailswan Jan. 01, 2024
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
python_code: >
  class Solution:
      def findItinerary(self, tickets: List[List[str]]) -> List[str]:
          def dfs(dep):
              arr = paths[dep]
              while arr:
                  dfs(arr.pop())
              res.append(dep) 

          res = []
          paths = defaultdict(list)
          tickets.sort(key=lambda x: x[1], reverse = True)
          for s, t in tickets:
              paths[s].append(t)
          dfs('JFK')
          return res[::-1]
      
         
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
[LeetCode.cn](https://leetcode.cn/problems/reconstruct-itinerary/)
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/reconstruct-itinerary/)

You are given a list of airline tickets where tickets[i] = [fromi, toi] represent the departure and the arrival airports of one flight. Reconstruct the itinerary in order and return it.

All of the tickets belong to a man who departs from "JFK", thus, the itinerary must begin with "JFK". If there are multiple valid itineraries, you should return the itinerary that has the smallest lexical order when read as a single string.

For example, the itinerary ["JFK", "LGA"] has a smaller lexical order than ["JFK", "LGB"].
You may assume all tickets form at least one valid itinerary. You must use all the tickets once and only once.

 
**Example:**

**Input:** `tickets = [["MUC","LHR"],["JFK","MUC"],["SFO","SJC"],["LHR","SFO"]]`
**Output:** `["JFK","MUC","LHR","SFO","SJC"]`
 
**Input:** `tickets = [["JFK","SFO"],["JFK","ATL"],["SFO","ATL"],["ATL","JFK"],["ATL","SFO"]]`
**Output:** `["JFK","ATL","JFK","SFO","ATL","SFO"]`

### Solution Approach
 The solution employs a depth-first search (DFS) approach to reconstruct the itinerary. By sorting the tickets in reverse order based on destination airports and then traversing the graph using DFS, the algorithm ensures the lexical order is minimized. The DFS starts from "JFK" and explores subsequent airports in a manner that utilizes all tickets exactly once.

#### Algorithm
1. Sort Tickets: Sort the given list of tickets in reverse order based on the destination airport to ensure lexical order minimization.
2. Build Graph: Create a graph represented by a defaultdict, where each departure airport has a list of its corresponding arrival airports.
3. DFS Traversal: Implement a recursive DFS function to traverse the graph, starting from "JFK." Explore each destination airport in a reverse order (pop from the list).
4. Reversed Result: Append each airport to the result list during DFS traversal. The final result list is reversed to obtain the correct order.
5. Return Result: Return the reconstructed itinerary as the final result.