---
title: 260. Single Number III
level: medium
categories:
- Bit Manipulation
- Array
- Review
- AMateList
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 260. Single Number III
  Post by ailswan Dec.12, 2023
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
python_code: >
  class Solution:
      def singleNumber(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        bitmask = 0
        for n in nums:
            bitmask ^= n
        diff = bitmask & (-bitmask)
        x = 0
        for n in nums:
            if n & diff:
                x ^= n
        return [x, x ^ bitmask]
         
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
https://leetcode.com/problems/single-number-iii/
https://leetcode.cn/problems/single-number-iii/
 
Given an integer array nums, in which exactly two elements appear only once and all the other elements appear exactly twice. Find the two elements that appear only once. You can return the answer in any order.

You must write an algorithm that runs in linear runtime complexity and uses only constant extra space.

**Example:**

**Input:** `nums = [1,2,1,3,2,5]`
**Output:** `[3,5]`
 
**Input:** `nums = [-1,0]`
**Output:** `[-1,0]`

### Solution Approach
To find the two elements that appear only once in the given integer array, the algorithm utilizes the XOR operation to cancel out the elements that appear twice, leaving only the XOR of the two unique elements. After finding the XOR, it identifies the rightmost set bit in the result and uses it to partition the array into two groups based on whether the bit is set or not. Finally, it applies XOR on each group separately to find the two unique elements.

#### Algorithm
1. Perform XOR on all elements in the array to obtain the XOR of the two unique elements.
2. Find the rightmost set bit in the XOR result and use it to differentiate the two unique elements.
3. Iterate through the array again, partitioning the elements based on whether the rightmost set bit is set or not.
4. Apply XOR separately to each group to find the two elements that appear only once.