---
title: 339. Nested List Weight Sum
level: medium
categories:
- DFS
- BFS
feature_text: |
  ## LeetCode 339. Nested List Weight Sum
  Post by ailswan Oct.31, 2023
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
status: ★
session: 1
category:
- DFS
python_code: >
    class Solution:
        def depthSum(self, nestedList: List[NestedInteger]) -> int:
            def dfs(nestedList, depth):
                total = 0
                for nested in nestedList:
                    if nested.isInteger():
                        total += nested.getInteger() * depth
                    else:
                        total += dfs(nested.getList(), depth + 1)
                return total
            return dfs(nestedList, 1)
                    
---

### Problem Statement
**link:**
[LeetCode.cn](https://leetcode.cn/problems/nested-list-weight-sum/)
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/nested-list-weight-sum/)

You are given a nested list of integers nestedList. Each element is either an integer or a list whose elements may also be integers or other lists.

The depth of an integer is the number of lists that it is inside of. For example, the nested list [1,[2,2],[[3],2],1] has each integer's value set to its depth.

Return the sum of each integer in nestedList multiplied by its depth.


**Example:**

**Input:** `nestedList = [[1,1],2,[1,1]]`
**Output:** `10`
 
**Input:** `nestedList = [1,[4,[6]]]`
**Output:** `27`
 
**Input:** `nestedList = [0]`
**Output:** `0`

Constraints:

1 <= nestedList.length <= 50
The values of the integers in the nested list is in the range [-100, 100].
The maximum depth of any integer is less than or equal to 50.


### Solution Approach
The solution uses depth-first search (DFS) to recursively calculate the sum of integers in the nested list, multiplying each integer by its depth

#### Algorithm
1. Depth Calculation: For each integer encountered in the nested list, multiply its value by its current depth, which represents the number of nested lists it is inside.
2. Recursive Traversal: If an element in the list is another nested list, recursively call the function, increasing the depth by 1, to continue processing deeper levels.
3. Sum Accumulation: Accumulate the weighted sums from both integers and deeper nested lists to obtain the total sum for the entire structure.
 
#### Complexity
 **time complexity**: O(N)where N is the total number of integers and lists in the nested structure
 **space complexity**: O(D)where D is the maximum depth of the nested list. 